BOOK 1112

INTRODUCTORv, 1-93.

ι. Praise of Epicurus. 1-30.

nou art my gm‘de, oglory of the Grecian fhlk, thou that with god-
like reason hast revealed tlte true nauare of things, hast shown the
blessed abodes qs the deities far away from all regurd of men, and hast
caused the realm qs Acheron to vanish. 1-30.

3. te: Epicurus. The followers of Epicurus clung to his teach· l
ings with almost superstitious devotion. His immediate pupils were ξ
required to commit brief summaries of thern to memory, and the
practice appears to have been kept up as long as the school con· '
tinued in existence. Such was the dogmatic impress which Epicurus
stamped upon his doctrines that they never underwent expansion,
never departed from his own utteranees. In the servile dependence
upon a founder, the Epicureans can be compared only with the
Pythagoream, wh0, it is said, had for all kinds of objections one and
the same answer‚ αὐτὸς ἔφη, ipse dixit. The Epicureans usually spoke
of their master with unmeasured laudatiori, and did not hesitate to
call him divine. See n. to 1, 66. Cf. Cic. N. D. 1, 16, 433 Zeller,

‘ Stoits Ep„ and Scep-⁹ ch. 16. 4. ficta: old participle of fig0, ==
fixa. 5. cupidus: the adj. supplies the place of a causal clause,
coordinate with quod . . . aveo. 8. fortis ε ⁸ spirited.' for‘t. eq. vis

is found also 764, and was perhaps suggested by Ennius’ line sic ut
sbrtis equs etc.‚ in Cic. Cat. Maior 5, 14 (Vahlens’ Enn. Ann. 441).
9. pater: simply a term of respect, a common usage with the cor-
responding words in all languages. — rerum inventor: so Prof. Tyn·
dall finds in Charles Darwin ‘⁴ the Abraham of scientific men.'' See
Wainwright, ‘ Scientific Sophism5‚’ ch. 1, for other instances of like

 

